---
title: Quiz 6
author: Vishal Ingle
date: 2024-12-24
category: Jekyll
layout: post

---

What is the main focus of the Business Transformation Readiness Assessment in TOGAF?

1. Assessing the technical feasibility of a transformation project.
2. Evaluating the financial aspects of a transformation project.
3. Assessing the readiness of IT systems for change.
4. **Focusing on the human and organizational aspects of change.**

Which of the following best describes the purpose of the Business Transformation Readiness Assessment technique?

1. **To determine if the organization is ready to undergo change**
2. To determine if the stakeholders support the implementation plan
3. To ensure that there are adequate trained engineers to develop the solution
4. To plan the migration steps needed to achieve the transformation

In the context of TOGAF's ADM, when is interoperability addressed in the architecture development phases?

1. Only in Phase E
2. **In all phases of the ADM**
3. Only in Phase C
4. Only in Phases A and B

What is the primary purpose of the "rationale" section in the architecture principles template?

1. To describe the relationship between different principles.
2. To specify the technical details of the principle.
3. To list the names of key stakeholders.
4. **To highlight the business benefits of adhering to the principle.**

What is one of the key purposes of architecture principles in TOGAF?

1. To ensure that all business decisions align with the architecture.
2. To create a document that outlines all IT standards.
3. To enforce strict governance in the enterprise.
4. **To guide decision-making, align the enterprise, and ensure governance.**

When is risk management typically carried out in the TOGAF ADM?

1. **In Phases A and G**
2. Only in Phase A
3. Only in Phase G
4. In all phases of the ADM

Which of the following describes a purpose of Architecture Principles?

1. To describe impacts resulting from successful deployment of the Target AE
2. To control the business in pursuit of strategic objectives
3. To form a contract between the sponsoring organization and the EA
4. **To set precedence during trade-off discussions**

A set of Architecture Principles that are enduring and yet able to accommodate change meet the recommended criteria of

1. **Stability**
2. Completeness
3. Robustness
4. Consistency

In TOGAF's Architecture Principles template, which section outlines Business and IT requirements for implementation?

1. Rationale
2. Name
3. Statement
4. **Implications**

A/an __________ is used in the Business Architecture phase to help identify and understand business ________

1. **Business scenario, requirements**
2. Activity model, Perspective
3. use-case, interconnections
4. business transformation readiness assessment, constraints


