---
title: Quiz 8
author: Vishal Ingle
date: 2024-12-24
category: Jekyll
layout: post

---

Why are Architecture Compliance Reviews essential in Architecture Governance?

1. **To catch errors in project architecture early**
2. To encourage the application of worst practices
3. To identify architectural gaps for compliance
4. To micromanage project architecture

What do Architecture Contracts involve?

1. **Joint agreements between sponsors and stakeholders**
2. Agreements between the EA team and external entities
3. Formal contracts between the EA team and project managers
4. Memorandums of understanding between development partners

Which of the following statements related to governance in Enterprise Architecture is the most correct?

1. Stakeholder directs development and controls architecture changes.
2. Practitioner governs architecture development and implements.
3. **Stakeholder directs and controls both arch practitioner and implementer.**
4. CEO governs and directs practitioner and implementer.

What is the primary responsibility of the Architecture Board?

1. Make decisions on change requests
2. **Ensure compliance with architecture standards**
3. Directly manage all architecture projects
4. Develop architecture principles

Which of the following is **NOT** one of the domains of governance typically associated with Architecture Governance?

1. IT Governance
2. **Legal Governance**
3. Corporate Governance
4. Technology Governance

What should be put in place to make sure that arch artifacts are developed and used with accountability &  responsibility

1. Governance of the Architecture Definition Document
2. **Governance of the management of Architecture Contracts**
3. Governance of the Statement of Architecture Work
4. Governance of the Architecture Vision

Which of the following best describes how Architecture Governance typically operates?

1. In Phase G of the ADM
2. At the top level of the organization
3. **Within a hierarchy of governance structure**
4. In isolation

According to ISO/IEC 38500:2015, how is governance defined?

1. A system that promotes chaos and disorder
2. A system that encourages absolute freedom
3. **A system that directs and controls the current and future state**
4. A system that focuses on micro-management

What is the primary objective of Architecture Governance?

1. Maximizing project efficiency
2. **Ensuring compliance with policies and standards**
3. Minimizing control over architectural work
4. Encouraging ad hoc decision-making

Who typically owns the decision rights about the target architecture, relief, and enforcement?

1. Architecture Board
2. Enterprise Architecture team
3. **Stakeholders**
4. Development partners

What additional purpose do Architecture Compliance Reviews serve?

1. Identify potential improvements to mandated standards
2. Limit communication to management regarding project status
3. Ensure all architectural artifacts are destroyed
4. Promote chaos within architectural projects
