---
title: Quiz 1
author: Vishal Ingle
date: 2024-12-24
category: Jekyll
layout: post

---

What is the primary concern of Application Architecture in enterprise architecture?

1. **Providing a blueprint for applications, their interactions and relationships**
2. Identifying specific software and hardware products
3. Describing the structure of logical and physical data assets
4. Defining the digital architecture and infrastructure standards

What does the Business Architecture domain in enterprise architecture define?

1. **The business strategy, governance, organization, and key business processes**
2. The blueprint for individual applications
3. The digital architecture and infrastructure standards
4. The logical and physical data assets

Where is the practical guidance on how to apply the TOGAF Standard provided?

1. The TOGAF Library
2. The TOGAF Fundamental Content
3. **The TOGAF Series Guides**
4. The ADM Techniques

Which abstraction level is concerned with identifying the actual solution, including specific components like ERP system?

1. Logical
2. **Physical**
3. Contextual
4. Conceptual

What does the TOGAF Standard consider an "enterprise" to be in the context of Enterprise Architecture?

1. A group of countries working together
2. **A collection of organizations with common goals**
3. A single government department
4. A corporation's entire workforce

The TOGAF Standard covers the development of four architecture domains, Application, Data, Technology, and

1. Transition
2. Capability
3. Transformation
4. **Business**

In enterprise architecture, which of the following is considered the primary focus domain when developing architecture?

1. Technology architecture
2. Data architecture
3. Application architecture
4. **Business architeure**

How does The TOGAF Standard contribute to Enterprise
Architecture?

1. **By standardizing and de-risking the architecture development process**
2. By ignoring the needs of stakeholders
3. By prioritizing future business needs over current requirements
4. By adding complexity to the architecture development process

What is the main purpose of Enterprise Architecture?

1. A Managing the risk of unanticipated consequences
2. Simplifying and communicating complex structures
3. **Transating business vision and strategy into effective change**
4. Achieving the right balance between business transformation and efficiency

In the context of Enterprise Architecture, how can the term "Enterprise" be applied?

1. Only to internal business units
2. **Either to the entire enterprise or specific areas of interest**
3. Only to the entire organization
4. Only to suppliers and customers

In the context of Enterprise Architecture, what does the "Contextual" abstraction level primarily focus on?

1. A Identifying specific technologies for implementation
2. Identifying logical and physical components for deployment
3. **Understanding the environment, scope, and motivation for architecture work**
4. Decomposing requirements to understand the problem and its solution

Why is Enterprise Architecture beneficial? Which of the following is the best answer?

1. **It provides a strategic context in response to constantly changing need**
2. Guides tech choices for shareholder value
3. Defines strategy's range and scale
4. Optimizes business components

Should the hardware store chain use Enterprise Architecture to support its expansion to online sales? Choose best answer

1. Yes, an experienced team in current technology can make key decisions
2. No, it hinders Agile solution development.
3. No, it's not suitable for this strategic change
4. **Yes, it facilitates governance, management, and risk management.**

How does Enterprise Architecture help balance conflicting demands within an organization?

1. A By enabling sponsors to achieve the right balance
2. **By always prioritizing business transformation**
3. By ignoring some concerns and requirements
4. By avoiding trade-offs entirely

What is a key concept highlighted in The TOGAF Standard, 1Oth Edition?

1. Enterprise architects make all decisions for stakeholders
2. Enterprise architects have no role in stakeholder
decisions
3. Enterprise architects work independently of stakeholders
4. **Enterprise architects work on behalf of stakeholders**

In the context of enterprise architecture, what is the Technology Architecture primarily concerned with?

1. Providing a blueprint for individual applications and their
interactions
2. Outlining the business strategy and governance
3. Describing the structure of logical and physical data assets
4. **Defining the digital architecture and infrastructure standards**

What makes up The TOGAF standard?

1. A The TOGAF Library
2. White papers and reference architecture
3. **The TOGAF fundamental content and the TOGAF series guides**
4. The Open Group Library

At which level do you identify business, data, application, and technology components for services in conceptual level?

1. A Physical
2. Conceptual
3. **Logical**
4. Contextual

